# Updating BELA with your .NET Projects

## 1. Restore Your Project

Make sure you are in your project's folder:
```
cd <your-project-folder>
```
Follow the instructions below depending on whether your project uses **.NET Core** or **.NET Framework**. 

#### .NET Core
For a project using .NET Core, restore its packages in the `./.bela/dependencies` folder. Here is an example using `dotnet`:
```
dotnet restore --packages ./.bela/dependencies
```

#### .NET Framework
For a project using .NET Framework, use your preferred restore tool, such as msbuild or nuget, and make sure the packages folder is created **inside** the project folder and not somewhere else.
> [!IMPORTANT]
> .NET's default restore behavior is to generate the packages folder **inside** the project already, but certain configurations and env vars can override that.

Below are examples using **msbuild** and **nuget**:
```
msbuild -t:restore
```
```
nuget restore
```

## 2. Run the Bela Updater
**Still inside your projects folder** run the `bela-updater-dotnet` docker app. It reads all the solutions in the current folder, analyses their projects and generates the `.bela/bela-update.json` file.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> It runs with network=none for secure containment.

```
docker run --network=none --pull=always \
           -v ./.bela:/.bela \
           -v .:/workspace:ro \
           juxhouse/bela-updater-dotnet -source my-source \
           -parent-element-path service/my-service \
           -ignore-test-code
```

#### `-source`

This argument indicates the [source](/Concepts.md#sources) for the elements being uploaded. Normally the name of the repo is used as source. In Github that would be `"$GITHUB_REPOSITORY"`, for example.

#### `-parent-element-path`  

This optional argument will import your projects' elements as the contents of some parent element. If your project is the implementation of a microservice for example, you can import it inside that microservice, like this:
```
  -parent-element-path service/my-service
```
Your projects can also have [custom parent elements](reference/Custom-Parent-Elements.md).

#### `-ignore-test-code`

This optional flag will make BELA ignore projects that have the `IsTestProject` tag set. Example .csproj file:
```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
  <PropertyGroup>
    <IsTestProject>true</IsTestProject>
```


## 3. Upload to BELA

See [upload example](/updaters/reference/upload-example.md).
